# RL Project: Function Approximation and REINFORCE

## Your Task

In this project you will implement the following RL algorithms, in
this order:

1. Sarsa with state-value function approximation
2. Monte Carlo with state-value function approximation
3. REINFORCE with soft-max policy
4. REINFORCE with baseline and soft-max policy

all for the
[Cart-Pole](https://gymnasium.farama.org/environments/classic_control/cart_pole/)
task from Gymnasium (formerly OpenAI Gym).

### Your Tools

There are a lot of Python files.  All require editing; `grep` for
`BEGIN` to see where your code is required.  It is much less work than
it seems at first glance; read on for details.

The `*Agent.py` files define two hierarchies of base classes for
generic RL algorithms, and the `CartPole*.py` files each instantiate a
specific method for this task.  At a glance, these are the
dependencies (by inheritance or inclusion) between the files:

    DiscreteAgent
      DiscreteSarsaAgent
        CartPoleSarsa
      DiscreteMonteCarloAgent
        CartPoleMonteCarlo
  
    ReinforceAgent
      CartPoleReinforce
      ReinforceBaselineAgent
        CartPoleReinforceBaseline

In addition, see `run.sh` and `plots.py` for evaluation.

### Some Hints

- Since all *q* and *h* functions operate on the same state
  (=observation) space, you can probably use the same neural network
  architecture everywhere.
  
- The `trainEpisode()` method of the `ReinforceAgent` is almost
  identical to that of the `DiscreteMonteCarloAgent`.
  
- Part of the `update()` method of the `ReinforceBaselineAgent`
  includes an almost verbatim copy of the `update()` method of the
  `ReinforceAgent`.
  
- Don't expect perfect results.  No agent will learn perfectly.
  However, each agent should achieve perfect results on multiple
  consecutive episodes.
  
- See the [lecture
  notes](https://iis.uibk.ac.at/public/piater/courses/IIS/modules/RLapprox/RLapprox.pdf)
  for further hints on implementation with PyTorch.

### What and How to Hand In

Upload this entire directory as an archive file to OLAT. Besides its
original content (including your edits) it should contain plots
generated by `plots.py`, 8 in total, for at least one run of each
method. Write any observations or comments into `submission.md`.

Do not include any bulky log or `.npy` files.


## An Alternative Task

The above task explores discrete actions on episodic tasks. In class
we also discussed (or will discuss) continuous action spaces and
non-episodic tasks (i.e., tasks that may potentially continue forever
unless they fail, starting a new episode). The [classic
control](https://gymnasium.farama.org/environments/classic_control/)
tasks of Gymnasium include tasks with continuous action spaces, but
these are not suitable for our basic methods, for reasons (to be)
discussed in class. Of these, the
[Pendulum](https://gymnasium.farama.org/environments/classic_control/pendulum/)
task can easily be turned into a non-episodic task, but again, it is
not useful for our purposes.

Instead of doing Your Task specified above, you may choose to do the
following: 

- Adapt or create a task (as a class derived from `gymnasium.Env`)
  that either involves continuous actions, is non-episodic, or both,
  and that is solvable by the methods we discussed in class.

- Implement one such method, building as much as possible on the
  supplied Python files, and demonstrate that it works, analogously to
  the above instructions.  In particular, implement one of the
  following methods:
  - *Differential Semi-Gradient Sarsa* or *Continuing Actor-Critic*
    for a continuing task with discrete actions
  - *REINFORCE* or *Episodic Actor-Critic* with a policy parametrized
    as a Normal distribution for an episodic task with continuous
    actions
  - *Continuing Actor-Critic* for a non-episodic task with continuous
    actions
